Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. it is an intermediate language between the human being and the machine.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java development kit,composed of JRE(java run-time),
   JVM, and docs(documentation of java in the library).

What is IDE?
A. interface development environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. eclipse, and intellij

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. source code becoming a byte-code going through the compiler which will run during the run-time
   using the run-time compiler.

what is class?
A. it is a blueprint.

What is object?
A. it is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. the main methode.

Why main is static?
A. because the class can be called without creating an object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. the object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. a path variable is a path that we set for java in general, class path is a path that we set only for class.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.interface can not be implemented and the variables are final, and abstract can have instance method that
  implements a default behavior, and may contain a non-final variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. no,, used by creating a different name and use it as object
   EX: phones iphone = new phones();

what is Access Specifier?
A. a keywords that are specifying the accessibility of our proprieties.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP stand for Object Oriented Program.
   a. inheritance: it is about classes, a class can be extended to an other class.
   b. polymorphism: it is about methods.
   c: encapsulation: it is a data hiding(protecting the data).
   d. abstraction: it is an implementation hiding.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. java package is a folder that holds alla different java classes.
B. the package which imported by default is java.lang

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. (application programming interface), we used java API.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. no, because it can only extend to one class.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. it is when two methods have the same name but different parametters, happening during the compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. compile time exception and run time exception.
B. we can use (try and catch block) or throws keyword.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. used the same variable or method of a given class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. when used final variable or method means we can not change the later on .

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. final is used for methods and variables.
B. finally is associated with try and catch block
c. finalized is used with garbage collection.

What is a constructor ?
A. it is a code similar to a method called when we create an object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. a default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. used to link a global variable to local variable.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. it is a keyword that can evoque the proprieties of the super class
B. we can use it for variables and methods.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java virtual machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. yes

What version of java are you using?
A. java 8.

What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JVM is an environment , and JDK is a platform.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM is converting bytecode during run-time

What is compile time and run time?
A. compile time is when we enter code and run-time is when the machine execute the codes.

What is heap?
A. it is a dynamic memory used in java.

How java manage it's memory?
A. by calling the garbage collection te clean the non used objects to make space to the new objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
A. it is a class and object protection.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. while loop is first checking the conditions then run, do-while loop is first run then check the conditions.

What is Enum?
A. it is a special class, that uses a predefined variables, like month of the years, days of the weekk.

What is Iterator?
A. it is an object that enable a programmer to traverse a container.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. because string objects are cached in string pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. it is the process of calling a constructor from an other constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.
What is JIT stands for?
A. just in time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. java moves garbage collection to heap memory to free the memory for the new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. no

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. heap is dynamic, and stack is static.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?

what is multithreading in java?
A. is when we have multi threads in one main method.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.
What is Framework?
A.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. Junit , testNG

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. Junit is an open-source framework, testNg is a java based frameword.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. Junit , maven

what is dependency injection in java?
A. when using ans external library.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. the binding uses type information for binding while dynamic binding uses objects to resolve to bind.









