Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. in order to store multiple values in a same object.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. add, remove, set.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. data science,databases,graphic design.

what is an Array?
A. it is an object that contain multiple values.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A. array is static and it is predefined, arrayList is dynamic and grew based on need.

what is LinkedList?
A. it is a list that uses nodes to store values.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A. array stores values inside blocks, linked list stores values inside nodes.

what is queue?
A. it is a collection based on the way that the data is stored inside(first in first out).

what is stack?
A. it is a collection based on the way that the data is stored inside(last in first out).

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A. first in first out.
B. last in first out.

what is the order of complexity?
A. it is a storing the value from the smallest to the biggest.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A. the map

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.the collection

what is tree in data structure?
A. it is a non-linear data made of nodes.

what is graph in data structure?
A. it is a non-linear data made of node.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A. hashtable is synchronized, and hashmap is not synchronized.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A.
How HashMap works in java?
A. key-value pair

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A. it is an error, happens when we try to get a value that is not existing in array using index.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A. array.copy()
B. System.arraycopy()
c. object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A. array stores values inside blocks and linked list stores inside nodes.

What is DFS and BFS?
A. breadth first search
B. depth first search

What is Recursion?
A. it is when a method calls itself.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A. linear is anything that going when the data is stored(arraylist), non-linear is when the nodes can be linked to any
other node(tree).

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A. it is a mathematical notation that describe the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards
a particular value or infinity.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A. insertion sort
B. selection sort
c. bubble sort
D. pucket sort
E. merge sort
F. heap sort

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


